post: Custom components Dashboard (#1189)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2023/10/custom-vuetify-components-dashboard.md

description: Expand your dashboard with the full collection of Vuetify components
authors: ["zeger-jan-van-de-weg"]
image: # TODO blog/2023/09/images/tile-restapi-dashboard.png
date: 2023-10-02
tags:
    - posts
    - how-to
    - node-red
---

Vuetify is a library of UI components using Vue. This saves the developers of
Dashboard 2.0 a lot of time, but it can also help you, the end-user. As Vuetify
is now included, it can be used to include _any_ of their components. So in this
post we're going to use a few of these to teach you how to use any of them.

<!--more-->

Let's install the [Dashboard 2.0 package](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/getting-started.html) if you want to follow along. When that's done, let's figure
out how to build custom components on dashboards.

## Custom components

While going through the list of components on [Vuetify](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/)
there's several examples that aren't natively implemented in Dashboard 2.0.
One example we'll use in a dashboard in this post is the
[Progress circular](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/components/progress-circular/) to
build a count down timer.

> The documentation explain what elements one can change, in this case the size and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation explains which elements one can change, in this case the size and
```

So let's hook up an Inject, with `msg.payload`'s output being a JSONata expression 
`$round($random() * 100)` to generate a random number. And let's make sure it
sends a message every second.

Then we need to update the template node to the following snippet:

```html
<v-progress-circular v-model="msg.payload" :size="128" :width="12"></v-progress-circular>
```

The difference is subtle, but important. Instead of hard-coding the `model-value`
to 20, the tag has changed name and it's set to `msg.payload`. The latter makes
the value dynamic.

Changing `model-value` to `v-model` is due to leaking implementation details of
Dashboard 2.0. It uses VueJS to provide, among other features, easy updating of
components. If components are dynamic, _always use `v-model`_. This allows VueJS
to pick up changes made dynamically.

!["Progress spinner, random values"](./images/random-progress-element.gif "Progress spinner, random values")

### Finishing the count down timer

This is mostly a programmers job, but it's not hard, so let's get to it. A button
would be great to reset the timer, and for the sake of this post we can hardcode
the deadline to 1m from the button press.

> When draggin in a butten node, connect it to a [change](/node-red/core-nodes/change)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When dragging in a button node, connect it to a [change](/node-red/core-nodes/change)
```
